# Tech Assessment

# 🐐 React Testing Library

## **Overview**

- **What is it?**

[testing-library/react-testing-library](https://github.com/testing-library/react-testing-library)

- **How does it work?**

[Testing Implementation Details](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/testing-implementation-details)

- **What does the technology allow us to do?**

Test React in a more user focussed way, which increases our confidence. 

For example, our users only really care about what they see on their UI, and so as long as a login form appears when you click the login button, they are happy. They aren't necessarily interested in the fact the state indicates "loginOpen: true". So instead, RTL tests that the login form appears as a DOM node instead.

- **How mature is the technology and is there an active community?**

Released by the very well respected Kent C Dodds, RTL was released in 2018.

[Introducing the react-testing-library 🐐](https://kentcdodds.com/blog/introducing-the-react-testing-library/)

- **Are there any alternatives?**

Enzyme is an older testing library focussed on components and state, a less user centered approach to testing.

## **Examples/Demo**

## **Strategic fit**

- **What changes would be required to the technology to make it work within the company?**
- **How can we exploit it? Do we have the skills/aptitude to exploit it?**

Not yet, the knowledge for RTL is fairly slim within the organisation, and so a steep learning curve awaits. Especially when paired with the lack of free training resources and changing best practises and syntax that we've seen already since its release in 2018. In summary, if your team needs components tested in the front end, this is a very useful technology, but be prepared to invest a reasonable amount of time into learning to use it.

## **What's the recommendation for next steps?**

Trial. Let's see what teams can do with the tech. Having a clear learning path, and having both testers and devs onboard, we would benefit from seeing cross team conversations about its use.

## **Where can we find more information?**